README.md, before:

# Holiday Wish List Full-Stack App

Built with:
- HTML
- VanillaJS
- Node
- Express
- SQL
- Sequelize

Testing with:
- Cypress.io

File Structure:
- app
  - api
    - api-routes.js
    - html-routes.js
  - public
    - index.html
  - scripts
    - Item.js
    - script.js
- config
  - config.js (auto-generated)
- models
  - index.js (auto-generated)
  - item.js
- test

Functionality:
- Add an item to wishlist
  - Item name (required)
  - Item link (optional)
  - Item note (optional)
- Edit an item on the wishlist
- Delete an item from the wishlist
- Send the wishlist to an email address

API Endpoints:
- Get list of items on wishlist (findAll and returns results)
- Post a new item to wishlist (create based on request body)
- Put an update to an existing wishlist item (updates item with given ID based on request body)
- Delete an existing wishlist item (destroy item with given ID based on request body)

Database Models:
- Item
  - ID (auto-generated)
  - Name (string)
  - URL (string)
  - Note (text)

HTML Structure:
- Form (Name, URL, and Note inputs) with Add Item button (add() method, href='/api/add')
- Div rendering items in list, each with an Edit and Delete button (delete() method, href='/api/delete')
- Form (Name, URL, and Note inputs) that pre-fills with values from an item when an Edit button is clicked, with a Submit button to submit changes (edit() method, href='/api/edit')

Item Class:
- Properties
  - Name
  - URL
  - Note
- Methods
  - Add (sends input as a post request to '/api/add' endpoint)
  - Edit (sends ID + Edit input fields as put request to '/api/edit' endpoint)
  - Delete (receives ID and sends ID as delete request to 'api/delete' endpoint)
  - Validate (checks that required field(s) is/are not null and have a length of at least 1 then returns boolean)

Event Listeners:
- Add button (captures input, runs validate() then add() if valid)
- Edit button (captures ID of item/button, sets values of Edit inputs)
- Submit button (captures ID and Edit input values, runs validate(), then edit() if valid)
- Delete button class (captures ID of clicked item/button and passes ID to delete())

Commit message:

first hour of work. Will have to remove edit functionality from scope in order to complete on time. server is working and displays item list to DOM based on JSON object. Next will define add and delete function and set up db.

README.md, after:

# Holiday Wish List Full-Stack App

Built with:
- HTML
- VanillaJS
- Node
- Express
- SQL
- Sequelize

Testing with:
- Cypress.io

File Structure:
- app
  - api
    - api-routes.js
    - html-routes.js
  - public
    - index.html
  - scripts
    - Item.js
    - script.js
- config
  - config.js (auto-generated)
- models
  - index.js (auto-generated)
  - item.js
- test

Functionality:
- Add an item to wishlist
  - Item name (required)
  - Item link (optional)
  - Item note (optional)
- Delete an item from the wishlist
- Send the wishlist to an email address

API Endpoints:
- Get list of items on wishlist (findAll and returns results)
- Post a new item to wishlist (create based on request body)
- Delete an existing wishlist item (destroy item with given ID based on request body)

Database Models:
- Item
  - ID (auto-generated)
  - Name (string)
  - URL (string)
  - Note (text)

HTML Structure:
- Form (Name, URL, and Note inputs) with Add Item button (add() method, href='/api/add')
- Div rendering items in list, each with an Edit and Delete button (delete() method, href='/api/delete')
- Form (Name, URL, and Note inputs) that pre-fills with values from an item when an Edit button is clicked, with a Submit button to submit changes (edit() method, href='/api/edit')

Item Class:
- Properties
  - Name
  - URL
  - Note
- Methods
  - Add (sends input as a post request to '/api/add' endpoint, then upon successful response appends item to wish list)
  - Edit (sends ID + Edit input fields as put request to '/api/edit' endpoint)
  - Delete (receives ID and sends ID as delete request to 'api/delete' endpoint)
  - Validate (checks that required field(s) is/are not null and have a length of at least 1 then returns boolean)

Event Listeners:
- Add button (captures input, runs validate() then add() if valid)
- Edit button (captures ID of item/button, sets values of Edit inputs)
- Submit button (captures ID and Edit input values, runs validate(), then edit() if valid)
- Delete button class (captures ID of clicked item/button and passes ID to delete())
